# Credit-risk-classification
Mod 20 Challenge - Supervised Learning


# Credit-risk-classification
Mod 20 Challenge - Supervised Learning
<<<<<<< HEAD
----


# Credit Risk Analysis Report
---

## Overview of the Analysis
The purpose of this analysis is to evaluate data on potential borrowers and their creditwortiness, and to further evaluate the accuracy of the models used to decide whether or not their lines of credit will be approved. The data looked at the borrowers': 
* loan size
* interest rates
* income & debt-to-income ratio
* number of accounts
* derogatory marks
* total debt
* loan status (0: low-risk, 1: high-risk)

The 'value_counts' feature was used to count the number of borrowers who were low- vs. high-risk. The results are below:
* 0 (low-risk) n = 78,036
* 1 (high-risk) n = 2,500
These values were split into training and testing datasets by usingn the 'train_test_split' module from sklearn. Both of these sets were then used to build a Logistic Regression Model (#1).
The training data was then resampled to predict a logistic regression model, using the 'RandomOverSampler' moduel from imblearn. This ensured that the model had an equally-splot number of data points, and was used to build a second Logistic Regression Model (#2).


## Results

* Machine Learning Model 1:
  * Accuracy Score: 95.2%
  * Precision Score: 92.5% 
  * Recall Score: 95%


* Machine Learning Model 2:
  * Accuracy Score: 99% (highly-reliable score)
  * Precision Score: 99%
  * Recall Score: 99%


## Summary

The second Logistic Regression Model #2 is the better performer of the two models - this is because of its near-perfect Accuracy, Precisiom, and Recall scores of 99%, compared to LRM #1 and its lower scores.

In many cases, the decision to choose either model will vary depending on the business case. In this case, it is more important to predict the high-risk loans (1's) with greater accuracy, as this is where the greatest risk and lending liability lies.

In other cases it may be more important to predict the low-risk loans (0's) to perfection, and in this hypothetical case the first model will be the better choice.


## Resources Used:
In-class activities, GeeksforGeeks

## References: 
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
=======

Resources used: In-class activities, GeeksforGeeks

References
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

